um so look you might remember this babe
I'm talking to my chrome Ellis
off-camera in the livestream
conversation I had with Weiner
captain Weiner I'm the guy in the Weiner
costume you know I said to him that a
lot of us our sense of self-esteem is
relative to our brothers and sisters and
our own family I've known a few
different women who feel ugly their
whole lives you feel unattractive it's
really actually about attractive not
ugly they feel unattractive because they
have say an older sister who's more
attractive than them that's who they
compare themselves to they come to a
family they come from a family so some
of those dynamics and I said in some
ways being on the internet for some
people for some personality types kind
of opens up this endless series of
brothers and sisters you you compete
with you feel like you're in competition
with I don't know somebody you idolized
on Instagram or YouTube or something
else now intellectually this really cuts
both ways one of my ex-girlfriends who's
gonna remain nameless she was much more
intelligent than her own sister and she
grew up in a family with just two girls
just two daughters um she was definitely
a lot more intelligent than her own mom
- and your mom and she really felt she
was extraordinarily bright and that she
didn't have to work hard to know
anything or I don't win an argument or
cover she she was arrogant
I mean arrogant is it's the kinda
intellectual arrogance and then she fell
in love with me which is not an
overstatement and it was a really
serious you know the long-term
relationship and you know she feels
stupid all the time she feels ignorant
all the time she starts fights with me
and disputes and debates and even if she
thinks it's something she has some
expertise in after she's talked to me
for a couple of minutes she starts you
know even if I'm just asking questions
even if I'm not deploying using some
Socratic method or something she starts
to realize she doesn't know what she's
talking about
and I mean you know
I used to say I say with her in that
relationship I said you know it's really
important to cultivate an appreciation
for for being wrong when you discover
that you're wrong that's when you know
you're learnt you're learning something
new and something else so interestingly
there's a new there's a new podcast up
or a new new video up from bite size
vegan Emily and Emily talks about some
that's quite close to nihilist
philosophy she talks about the
importance of maintaining a sense of
doubt in a sense of uncertainty at all
times even as you build up expertise
like even though you've had the
conversation about why I became vegan or
why mediate or she even though you've
had that a hundred times you've done a
certain level of research and footnotes
you've given again again that you
maintain a kind of a kind of doubt
I think the first philosopher to talk
about that there's that there's a famous
work called the Novum organum by Francis
Bacon and part of his idea in
maintaining your doubt even about things
you know was that the most productive
frame of mind is simultaneously playful
and serious interesting interesting gods
of Oz what's the best way to learn so
melissa is doing some philosophy of
Education right now but I think that's
actually quite close to some ideas we
have now in practical look why do
teachers play games with students why do
we ask people to get up and dance I mean
it's interesting you're trying to get a
state of engagement and you know I
hesitate to say critical thinking but
you're trying to get a state of mind
that is both both playful and serious so
when you I can remember kind of
philosophizing about that a bit with my
with my ex girlfriend whom I'm alluding
to here um but it really ground her down
she really found it denigrating she was
really used to being right all the time
you know weed her own family even in her
circle of friends
um the circle of friend she came through
high school and university with and
stayed in touch with to some extent she
wasn't she wasn't super closer than that
circle friends but I come where she tell
me anecdotes about meeting up with them
and you know they were smoking
cigarettes and they threw their
cigarette butts into the storm drain and
she just went off
on a rant about how you don't even
realize you don't care that you know
here that this those the storm ratings
go directly into Lake Ontario they don't
go through a sewage treatment you know
you're directly polluting a lake and you
know you're so fully ourselves with your
left left-wing ideologies your
theoretical commitment to
environmentalism but you don't care
enough to carry your your cigarette
ashes and your cigarette butts and put
them in a garbage can like you know she
was that kind of character which you can
already see what I like the butter I
mean to me yes that is endearing you
care enough to pitch a fit and throw a
little you know throw a tantrum that way
but I mean that was what she was used to
being she was used to being the person
who knew her stuff and the person who
was always right and the person he was
smarter than there was her own family
and she started hanging with me and it
really ground her down so now in this
relationship you I'm okay so you see no
my current girlfriend she watched like
over a hundred videos of mine on YouTube
before she met me real life probably
more than five hundred you know so she
already had a taste for the eyes Lazard
monologue she e oh she enjoys listening
to my ideas and my thoughts you know as
I as I present them now before before
you you mustn't that's not true of any
of my other girlfriends anyone else who
fell in love with me it was mostly based
on appearance
it was mostly based on some kind of
evolved sense of compatibility or
magnetism we have you know that thing
that weird sense of attraction and
compatibility which is not the same as
appearance in my book but you know it
based on that kind of thing and then
only after they get to know me or start
fall in love with me they find out that
I can monologue for two hours straight
on a long list an almost infinite list
of topics and you know well but you you
realize other women would not have first
encountered me as a as a
conversationalist and then encountered
me as a man they fell in love with the
man and then found out who I was
intellectually and my you know what it's
like to have cause there's me so melissa
is extraordinary that way that she
picked me first as a youtube personality
and then fell in love with me as men
but it is it's interesting note I mean
there were some times when Melissa was
just ground down by the eyes and was our
experience so you know but none of these
example but I think this example really
is telling but this doesn't reveal
anything anything too terribly personal
we were once in a hotel room we're
talking about rap music so you know it's
not always such a serious discussion and
you stated an opinion about Tupac so
Tupac Shakur a rapper and I just said to
you Oh what what song you think yeah but
you look what what you haven't find yeah
yeah yeah I was leaving I'm leaving out
some of the exam not gonna tell the
whole story it's just taste a lot but
you you got totally demoralized you
totally lost faith in your own argument
and you set the own other values to
forget it
forget I said anything about do pocket
for it so I didn't ignore this I really
took the time to unpack it I lay down on
the bed no come on let's talk like what
score I can see you're really upset
about this and I don't think you're
upset about Tupac I don't think you're
upset about the particular issue in in
rap music and the point was again that's
why I'm leaving out details the details
of who said what about rappers in the
matter but the point was I mean you were
just tired of being wrong you were tired
that no matter what the topic
conversation was even we're gonna talk
about rap music I would have greater
depth of knowledge and more accurate
memory and then I you know I think again
you gotta realize these conversation up
playing to win it's not a debate
it's not about you know one person
trumping another or what have you you
know now sorry the other thing there's a
truer words in every word spoken the
ex-girlfriend I alluded to whom I said
so many times you should learn to be
delighted by discovering that you're
wrong when you find that you're wrong
then you really know you're you're
learning something she would say back
she said yeah but that's what your view
is you're knocking off atop for you
that's true because you're only wrong
once in a while so for you it's special
for you it's excited you're happy to
find that your
no I don't I don't think that's true I
think it is a cultivated frame of mind
but you can see she was she was worn
down by this you know and look I mean
what a mode to say could be true of a
gay relationship could be true of two
men who are together or something
but I mean you know we work out of the
gym I lift more weight than Melissa I'm
always going unless I'm horribly
disabled in a car accident or something
you know if I you know whatever but you
know with you know ceteris paribus Keter
asparagus whichever pronunciation you
want here uh all things being equal I'm
always gonna lift more weight than you
you know there's this sense where when
you say this if you're working in tandem
if you're rowing the boat together where
one of you is always you know pulling
more pulling more water pulling more
weight than the other all right so look
what I'm gonna say what I think the
positive way out of this is and then I
know you can you can say what you think
it is maybe maybe we haven't found it
yet I'm mad I think it still is I think
it's still attention the right ship went
basically when you get tired I think
when you're well rested and alert you
have no problem with this you're
basically happy to be with someone she
does say to me also all the time it
comes of all time Melissa grew up in a
context with the people around her we're
just talking about football and baseball
and you know we're the level and caliber
of conversation I think that was even
true in university you weren't
surrounded by growing intellectuals at
university you were pushing on stuff she
does really appreciate being in the
company of at least one person all the
time who's really talking about
interesting and substantive things and
talking with him way that shows that he
cares but it's it's not some abstract
debating Club for me I really care about
these issues I break down weeping
talking about politics you're pretty
often I mean I don't wanna I could keep
a calendar then when we talk about you
know massacres and Wars and stuff from
history I get I get emotional I get
choked up talking
I don't we for half a second but you
know I get choked up talking with
I appreciate the challenge right okay so
I think okay that's I'm gonna do guys I
think the challenge is a separate but
related issue right cuz like okay so one
part of the challenge I think this is
what ground down my my ex-girlfriend one
part of the challenge is how do you know
what you think you know what you already
are certain of right and it may be that
it's something you read about or a
teacher said to you in high school and
you never really questioned it might be
something you picked up from television
without questioning it might be
something your parents always told you
you know but whether it's historical
political knowledge or or something else
you know know you you I have a youtube
video what's up from ages ago where I
stated my position on abortion you know
and I remember she was just completely
horrified in my position on abortion
right so by the way I I you know I want
to live in a tolerant society and I
basically think you know on a practical
level we absolutely have to allow people
to make the decision to have abortions
however I do not regard a fetus as
equivalent to having your appendix
removed or having your tonsils removed I
do not regard it as an inner unliving or
non-sentient piece of tissue I think
there's this ridiculous discourse of
trying to pretend it's just like any
other surgeon ism I was she was
completely you know horrified and
furious at me you know over that because
she came from a kind of a guy might have
been earlier than high school she
adopted a kind of dogmatic feminist
position that getting an abortion sure
her position was that getting an
abortion was no differ from clipping
your fingernails cutting your hair this
was like unliving tissue on the body
being slough off now anyone who's
actually been through having an abortion
themselves I don't think anyone okay
alright
takes all sorts some you I it would be
extraordinary for someone to actually go
through the experience and and feel that
way about or just look at the reality of
what a fetus is at three months or
something you know and and to come to
that conclusion but nevertheless so one
form of challenge is challenging you
about things you already know and then
the other form of challenge is making
you aware of things you don't know
you never even considered learning and
saying well you got two months in the
next two months how much do you know
about this so me Melissa had probably
never given any thought well the history
and politics of China I mean it's just I
don't think it ever occurred to you to
study the history of all things China
and they'll step by step over here and a
half China's more and more of a part of
your life and a lot of things about that
are just fascinating it's like well you
know um you know and it was quite a
dramatic you know discussion we had
where I really said to you look in the
next couple of months you know if you're
gonna learn one thing to put you on a
footing the rest your life I think
starting with the ancient Greeks doing
Aristotle Socrates so again that's like
nobody in your life none of her parents
none of her professors none of her
boyfriends or brothers it's true of her
brothers like seven years old her you
know nobody's ever said to you hey look
for who you are - I'm a this isn't this
isn't advice for everyone the world
specifically who you are in your
interests ethically politically and so
on you should really start one zero so
those are two types of challenge and the
never never go away right I think that's
the mark of a good relationship I think
of being a good boyfriend or good
partner and I you know I think it's part
of a good girlfriend to that you're
challenged in both those ways how do you
know what you really know and again
linking back to my earlier video on this
someone doesn't have to be that
intellectual well-versed especially on
one by the point one or point two to
really be saying to you okay like I
understand you're telling me this but
you know how do you know that where's
that just to be asking questions probing
into how did those assumptions get
formed where does this come from you
know where does your certainty on this
come from it would be better if you had
somebody who is challenging you
intellectually and there aren't very
many topics about which I can challenge
you to intellectual
and I remember you telling me what I
expressed that at some point in the past
you said not even your professors have
me did you feel like yes yes we're
actually when you were in one of their
classes so I just so that you mean
that's the kind of thing I don't say of
myself on YouTube people complain
already that on my YouTube channel I'm
boasting but yes very very often in in
the vast majority of cases I'm in a
situation where I know more than the
professor about the topic of the
particular class I'm not making a
universal statement I know more about
everything but I'm not going to get into
a big you're gonna have to use your
imagination that the particular classes
I'm taking on the particular yes and
that was one of the reasons I wanted to
go more into language in a language
class I'm not gonna no more than the
language teacher but in these other
areas yeah that is true
and you're right the professors are not
in a position to challenge me yep
[Music]
Melissa knows music I don't know music
I've never driven a car in my life she
may well teach me to have a car there
are some other there are some other
things yeah and no no no no I mean it
brings up another interesting digression
the same guy Daniel wrote back to me
asking about loneliness and you talk
about loneliness that way also for me
now at age 40 I'm not lonely that way
I'm really equipped to ask and answer
you know these these questions and
myself and I'm you know you could sir I
don't have a big bookshelf off camera
but you know you can even see that on
the bookshelf in terms of how I'm
challenging myself and the challenge is
partly you just in filling in gaps of my
own knowledge than I'm aware of and it's
partly creative swimming like my current
engagement with Socrates is ultimately
about reading writing original stories
my current engagement with Chinese I
want to write more children's stories in
Chinese I want to write more
propaganda and Chinese I want to read
politics and Chinese so you know after
you get over a certain point but for me
at least as an autodidact I don't really
need that um but look that could be a
whole separate video uh something nice
to say back in the University of Toronto
there's a difference between being
lonely and being alone and my situation
at University of Toronto my situation at
University of Victoria
you must chew at Cambridge University
England I was not lonely I was alone
you know and yeah as you know a whole
different operative IDEO but this is one
of the things I like about Chinese
culture is at least you can kind of have
colleagues and so on and in white right
so she's seeing this already in her the
difference between how you relate to
Chinese people and white people
University right now but also I find
Chinese people do not have the thing
most white people have I like to say
it's who do you think you are don't you
know who I think I am where they feel
stupid because I'm smart they don't want
to feel judged they don't want to feel
stupid they don't want to Tarzan is
better right what and Melissa is right
now in a university class we'll just
call it that where you are more
knowledgeable and experienced instead
advanced and have more acumen than the
other students in that class and you
know I think in many cultures not white
english-speaking Western culture but in
many cultures look oh this person is
strong they can help me to be strong
this person is smart they can help me to
be smart this person is why is the
hungry wise and in white Western
Englishman culture it's like no no no
insulate yourself again separate
yourself from anyone who's superior to
you so you can you don't feel challenged
you don't feel yeah so I think that's a
big difference
right
right right right right right right
right right
she compared herself to you and you know
in the same way I do that as well and we
spend so much time together that I think
I kind of in my mind think that I am
less intelligent that I'm not really an
intelligent person at all because it's
been so much time with you but when I'm
in another context in this class and I'm
like wow I mean I also don't want to
boast but you see yourself a different
yeah you also have more experience in
knowledge in this particular field yeah
to some other people Evans yeah okay so
look this is my my approach to solving
this problem and maybe it doesn't work
all right so look guys I mean really
briefly if you think my ex-wife is an
exception to this my ex-wife had a PhD
you would be wrong I mean you know I
could do a whole separate video typos my
relation with her but in my earlier
video I just said these issues have come
up again and again and again for each
and every girlfriend I've had so
including my ex-wife the PhD but
including even my ex-girlfriend who was
Lotion she was from Laos grew up and
Laos in a totally different culture
totally different educational background
but she was really used to being the
smartest person in the room you know
most of time they were in Laos she was
she was an extraordinary person in in
various ways but I also have an
extraordinary person in various ways so
it was a real big change
her to be in the room with me instead of
the other schlemiel she dated before and
after me
anyway shout out to her good good luck
to her it's right now um but look that
this is my my proposed solution I try to
take the question of learning and the
even the question of knowledge can put
it that broadly out of the quantitative
category and put it in the kind of
creative category now what I mean by
this is if you paint a picture if you
and your husband both paint a picture if
you and your wife you as a couple both
minute picture um the point is not in a
quantitative sense who has the best
picture who has the biggest picture who
was the most detail or something right
there's some sense in which I mean you
wouldn't be painting at all if you
didn't think there's some value in me
painting this picture and it being mine
right now Melissa your study of
Aristotle I'm just gonna simplify she's
read a whole bunch to ancient Greeks
lately I think it is true like
quantitatively your study is not as good
as mine if you think about it that way
think what is it as a company but that's
not the point right the point is your
interpretation of the politics of
Aristotle or the politics of Athens a
little bit more really your is yours
it's your creative challenge it's your
creative experience and in a very real
sense you know we create out of
ignorance and Melissa does raise
different questions about you know
ancient Greece Athens origins of
democracy political philosophy of
aerosol she raises different questions
than I would age be telling slither she
raises different questions that I would
raise partly because I have more
background and what-have-you and of
course I'm dealing with the stuff in a
bit more of a nuanced analytical way
because of who I am it and what I bring
to it but to try to get both parties to
realize this is something valuable for
you because it's yours and it reflects
your knowledge and your ignorance and
your progress and I don't think that's
true of everything I mean some tasks or
some forms of learning are so
meaningless that that's not your okay
getting a driver's license maybe look no
look just know just objectively
quantitatively you've got to be able to
drive good and that's it you know some
checkmark you got to reach there's some
standard you're trying to live up to and
you know there's there's no role for
creativity but in these more more
meaningful things too in that sense
personalize it and view it more
qualitatively and creatively as part of
who you are and if part of who you're
becoming because all of these
experiences change you melissa has made
a lot of progress in a year and a half I
think you are I think you are a
different person with a deeper
appreciation for life I can put it that
simply and you know broadening just your
awareness of the history of planet Earth
to include China the semi continent of
China like whoa you know and you know
even sorry Minnie had been to Europe
before she met me but the difference you
meet someone who's only kind of walked
the streets of Detroit I'm really
getting some depth of experience an
adult and as an adult in Europe and so
on you know there were changes that come
there too so that's it guys that's my
modest proposal and you know I think
many of you watching this video we saw
it in the comments in response last
video if you think this is a problem
keep in mind that it's a wonderful
problem to have because we had so many
people writing in saying they've never
dated anyone who read books about
politics mister they never did it anyone
who cared about anything more than
designer clothes or some shallow
terrible stuff that they wish they could
find someone they had a connection with
on these these deepers levels and
it's a wonderful problem to have